okay we only have two things more to go
and that is to hook in these two power
connectors don't forget that there's
going to be at least two on most
motherboards these days the big one is
we saw the floor goes up here and snaps
in one be careful not to knock out any
of those other tables that's one of the
hazards when you get all these wires
around everywhere we're going to clean
these up a little later after we see if
everything's working then this other
power connector that has eight pins
always plugs into the motherboard
somewhere near the processor and so this
this is this blue connector right up
here beside the processor
yeah and these kind of clip all in with
a little snap okay so that's on there
good again this is a really ugly messy
case I'm gonna clean these up and use
some cable ties later but now we've got
everything hooked in so let's just run
through our checklist real quickly we
put our processor and our cooling fan on
the motherboard we installed the memory
on the motherboard
we put the motherboard into the case and
screwed it on after we put those
mounting posts on there and we screwed
it in we mounted our DVD drive we
plugged power and we plugged it into the
motherboard two hard drives we only
plugged and put power to both of those
but only plug one of those into the
motherboard and we plugged in these
front panel headers for the power switch
when you plugged in our USB headers our
2.0 and 3.0 onto the board and we
connected the power to all of our fans
so that everything will be nice and cool
installed the power supply that was the
very first thing we did I think we're
ready to go now here is the the pistou
result resistance or whatever I plugged
in a USB keyboard and mouse into two USB
slots in the back and I hooked up a
monitor what we're going to do right now
is we are going to turn on the power as
soon as I plug it in we will turn on the
power and we're going to see if the
computer posts POS T
is this to see if everything seems like
it's time I looked up right
so this computer does not have windows
on it yet it's just a blank slate and
what we're doing now is we're going to
turn the power on just to see what
happens and I need to see which of these
buttons is the power button we're going
to see if the computer posts or if it
beeps at us and gives us some errors if
it starts beeping and nothing comes on
the screen that means we have some kind
of problem or if the screen comes on it
might tell us about some problems so
we'll see what happens here let's see if
this is the power station maybe that's a
reset switch there's a switch on the
power supply that was turned off I think
so let's try this again
all right the green light down here
telling us that there's power let's see
what happens so film the screen and see
so we're this is the computer posting
you see this every time you turn your
computer on you see something about BIOS
bla bla bla here it's telling us that it
found our hard drive and our DVD drive
new CPU installed please enter setup to
configure your system so this is telling
us that so far everything looks ok
additionally it tells us that it found
our 8,000 megabytes or 8 gigabytes of
memory and that that's fine
telling us that the speed of the
processor is what it should be when it
first gets set up now it's going to ask
us to go into the BIOS this is the bio
stands for basic input/output system you
want to look at your motherboard manual
if you need any help setting up the BIOS
let's go through and just see if we can
do this real quickly so hit enter and
set up your system
I miss my keyboard here okay so I did it
hit f1 let's recognize the keyboard so
here's a nice fancy bias screen it's
telling me about the things that have
been hooked up it's telling me that one
of the fans is going slow for the
attendant down on low power that's fine
but that means what's working the
voltages of the CPU CPU and of the
motherboard and it's given me about 55
options it's asking me what I want to
boot the computer from this is set to
DVD first and then harddrive that's what
I want because we're going to set up
Windows 7 on this from the DVD player
later on and so it looks like everything
is working fine so far and so this has
been a pretty successful basic build of
a computer not a whole lot fancy going
on so what I'm going to do now is just
use some cable ties to organize these
cables a little bit and make sure that
these cables don't hit the fans and make
noise and slow everything down but
otherwise I think we're done it's a
pretty pretty successful build Austin
anything any other things you can think
of that we need to do ok well I'm pretty
pleased this went pretty smoothly and
all the fans seem to be working and the
computer posted that just means that
this came up successfully and we didn't
get any error beeps so everything's fine
so this is Berkey academy signing off
with a basic computer build if you have
any questions I don't know how much help
I can be
but hopefully you've gotten the basic
idea of how everything will go so